---
layout: post
title: "Ōsaka • 大阪"
tags: [tokyo, kyoto, osaka]
image: /assets/uploads/images/osaka-hero.jpg
---

# Day 10: Arriving at Ōsaka • 大阪
We started our day in Kyōto, waking up around 8:00 am. Tristan had a fantastic sleep on the futon, but Soph was still nursing a small back injury so her sleep wasn't as restful. We had to rush a bit in the morning as the checkout time was 10:00 am, an hour earlier than we were used to. We packed up, tidied the place, and had a quick breakfast. Tristan opted for leftover curry for breakfast while Soph had a cream puff. Our host instructed us to leave the kitchen tap running ever so slightly to prevent the pipes from freezing, which was a very foreign concept to us.

We then embarked on a 15-minute walk to Sanjō Station (三条駅). Our route was simple: one train for ¥450 that would take us straight to a station in Ōsaka. The journey was about 45 minutes, and despite a slight hiccup thinking we were in the wrong carriage, it was a pretty straightforward trip. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/1" %}

Once we arrived at the station, our GPS decided to sabotage us and wrongfully insisted there was one more stop. Thankfully the conductor quickly set us straight, and we hopped off and onto a subway. The transfer was easy, and for ¥600 each, it was a pretty cheap trip.

We checked in to our hotel, the [Vessel Inn Namba](https://www.booking.com/hotel/jp/vessel-inn-namba.en-gb.html?aid=356980&label=gog235jc-1DCAsodUIQdmVzc2VsLWlubi1uYW1iYUgzWANoD4gBAZgBCbgBF8gBDNgBA-gBAYgCAagCA7gCvv-SpgbAAgHSAiRmZTgxMmFjZi0yZTk0LTRmYzMtYjAyYi02ODk4YzBiM2IwMDnYAgTgAgE&sid=00331bf60c828dd121ef44067c351ec3&dist=0&keep_landing=1&sb_price_type=total&type=total&), only 400 metres from Shinsaibashi Shopping Arcade (心斎橋筋) and close to the train station. We dropped off our bags and set out to explore Dōtonbori (道頓堀).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/1.1" %}

At the entrance of the shopping area was the [cheese coin](https://en.japantravel.com/tokyo/viral-10-shaped-bread/69785), a popular street food that we'd seen on TikTok. It was basically a pancake in the shape of a ¥10 coin (that actually costs ¥500) with a big wad of mozzarella in the middle that stretches super far when you bite into it. We didn't purposefully seek it out, but it was there and we decided to give it a try.

Tristan found it a bit bland and overhyped, but Soph, the queen of bland, loved it. Cake and cheese -- what more could a girl want?

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/2" %}

We spent the rest of the day exploring manga stores, trading card stores, and even a retro video game store. We found some old Game Boys, including a limited edition Pokemon one, but decided to hold off on any purchases. We also found a ThinkPad for sale on the street that had its webcam open, so we took a sneaky pic of course.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/3" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/3-part-2" %}

As we were heading back to our hotel, a young Japanese woman who was standing next to us at the lights gave us a small Pokemon figurine. We're not sure why, but we think she might have gotten it from a capsule toy machine and didn't want it. It was a random but delightful encounter that brightened our day. 

Back at the hotel, we checked in and settled into our room. The bath wasn't as nice as our last place, but it was still a bath, so we were happy. The view was just another building, but we didn't mind. We're just excited to be here, exploring and experiencing new things. 

After checking into our hotel and enjoying some downtime, we decided to explore the local scene. We were lured downstairs by the promise of free drinks, only to find self-serve soft drink vending machines. A bit of a letdown, but hey, we got our fair share of ginger ale and other fizzy delights. We also discovered that the breakfast bar had some promising options like bagels and toast. Noted...

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/3.1" %}

We left the hotel and headed back out to explore Dōtonbori a little more. It was dusk and the last remnants of the sunset fell beautifully on the city.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/3.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/3.2-part-2" %}

Our next stop was supposed to be an Australian pub we'd found online, but alas, it was closed. We were a bit bummed out, especially since the website had promised it would be open. But, as we've learned (against our will), travel is all about adapting, so we decided to try out a random place that promised cold beer. It turned out to be more of an oyster bar, and while the lime sour and beer were decent, the grilled corn was overpriced. We left in search for a decent dinner. We spotted some Kobe beef in a window and it looked so marbled and delicious.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/4" %}

But then, we hit the jackpot. We found Oko, a vegan/vegetarian Okonomiyaki place (thanks TikTok!) and it was absolutely delicious. We arrived a bit early and had a minor debate about whether we should wait a few minutes before going in. Soph won that round, and we headed up to find only one person ahead of us in line. The owner, Shiho, runs the entire joint by herself and was super sweet and accommodating. She does everything she can to accommodate dietary requirements and allergies -- we can't recommend this place enough if you are at all picky.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/4.1" caption="She really knows her market -- broke white people." %}

The restaurant was tiny but such a vibe -- Total Drama Island was playing on the TV, and the walls were covered in stickers and drawings. The restaurant can get loud so there are megaphones at the tables further away that you can use to call her over and order.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/4.2" caption="It's impossible to have a bad time when the walls are pink." %}

We ordered gyoza and okonomiyaki. Soph loaded her okonomiyaki with potatoes, carrots, asparagus, spinach, and green onions. She also opted for full cheese, which meant her okonomiyaki was smothered in American cheese (as every meal would be if she had her way). Tristan went for the teriyaki chicken okonomiyaki with half cheese. The drinks were a steal at ¥180 each (about $2 AUD), and we filled up on Asahi beer, whiskey highball, and a mysterious clear liquid that tasted like a vodka mix. The cool thing about the drinks system was that you could fill it up yourself at the tap -- you just had to yell "I'm getting another one!" at the owner and she would say "はい!" (yes) and it would be added to our bill. A flawless system if you ask us. We demolished/devoured/delighted in our meals and praised the gods of TikTok that recommended this place to us.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/5" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/5-part-2" %}

We left Oko feeling pretty tipsy and full of praise for the owner. It was so cheap for such a filling meal and we were so grateful to another incredible plant-based restaurant in another city. We had wanted to try okonomiyaki for ages, and we were chuffed to find a place that served both vego and meat options that we could both enjoy.

On our way back to the hotel, we stopped by FamilyMart for more drinks and picked up another lemon-scented bubble bar for our baths. We also got a facial moisturizer for Tristan because, well, he deserves it. We strolled through Dōtonbori, took some pictures, and even stopped by Starbucks to check out some potential gifts for our family and friends.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/6" %}

Tomorrow we're off to Universal Studios!

# Day 11: Universal Studios Japan
Our day started early, around 6:30 AM, with a refreshing hot shower and a quick prep for our much-anticipated visit to Universal Studios. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/7" %}

We grabbed some snacks from Lawson and hopped on a train. With a small GPS mishap, we eventually made it to Universal Studios. We waited eagerly at the entrance for about 45 minutes before they let us in. We even helped a group of tourists snap a photo in front of the Universal Studios gates. If you're planning on visiting Universal Studios and want to get on a ride before big lines form, it's worth getting to the entrance at least 40 minutes before opening. If you're traveling with JTB, you get to enter 30 minutes earlier than everyone else and enjoy the rides before the crowd pours in.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/7.1" %}

We made it through the gates and we were eager to get on our first ride of the day. Soon after getting in line for the Hollywood Dream, we were pulled aside by a staff member who led us to a locker room. We were confused at first -- we thought she was taking us to put our bags away or something. It turned out that they had a test seat for bigger people to try and see if they would fit. Tristan fit in fine but it was too big for Soph, so they had to leave the ride. It was a big blow to morale.

Eventually, we decided to stay and make the most of our day. We had paid a good amount of money to be there, and leaving would have just made the day worse. We did some googling and found out that other plus-size people had better experiences with other rides, so we decided to give it another shot.

Thankfully we found the Spider-Man ride, which had a really cool set to look at while we were waiting in line. The ride itself had bench seating and comfortably fit both of us. It was a relief. The ride was a VR experience that made you feel like you were leaping across NYC with Spider-Man, and a bit of adrenaline was just what we needed to boost our spirits.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/7.2" %}

We then ventured into Super Nintendo World, which was a sight to behold. The surroundings and props were impressive, straight out of a Mario game. We tried the Koopa's Challenge ride, a Mario Kart virtual reality ride. It was fun, but not as good as the Spider-Man ride. It was a really cool area of the park, but it was absolutely packed, so we didn't hang around too long.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/8" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/8-part-2" %}

Next was Harry Potter World, which was surreal to see in person. We were both huge Harry Potter fans growing up, so seeing the trains, Hogsmeade and the castle brought back so much nostalgia. We also went into Honeydukes and picked up some cool sweets from the movies.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/8.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/8.1-part-2" %}

We decided to go on the Forbidden Journey ride, which was another VR ride that took us on a ride through the castle with the characters from the movies. It was such a fun experience -- Soph doesn't love heights, so this was a great way to experience the thrill of a rollercoaster without the fear of falling. The highlight for us was the extremely jarring Japanese voices for all the characters. At the finale of the ride, all of the characters are standing in a line, thanking us for saving the day. Hearing Harry Potter look us dead in the eye and say "Arigato gozaimasu" (ありがとうございます) was a moment we'll never forget.

We were keen to go to Ollivander's wand shop next. We had to wait in line to get in, which we thought was because lots of people wanted to buy a wand. But to our surprise, it was actually a show! We were ushered into a dimly lit room surrounded by shelves filled with wand boxes. The actor, who was playing the role of Ollivander, was speaking in English but also paused to give the Japanese translation after each sentence. He was clearly an extremely talented American actor, and he seemed completely fluent in Japanese! He called up someone from the group to use a few wands to find one that chose her, just like in the movie. Each spell made things move around the room and made the lights flash -- it was a really cool experience to have before entering the actual shop.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/8.2" %}

After the show, we entered the shop and planned to buy our own wands. We took a quiz on the train ride there that matched our personalities to specific wands. However, after some consideration, we decided not to buy wands at all. They were quite expensive and we realized it would probably just end up collecting dust on a shelf at home. We did find this cool owl headband though.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9" caption="*Steven Fry voice* I think that bird is shagging your head." %}

We finished off our Harry Potter World experience with a couple of butterbeers. They were sweet and refreshing, like a mix of creaming soda and ginger beer with a yummy layer of foam on top. We also found a live performance by a few Japanese actors, all in different Hogwarts houses. The show was a bit young for us, but we still enjoyed it.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.1" %}

Next, we decided to go on the Jaws ride. It was a fun experience, with our boat being hunted by a giant shark. There was fire, lots of splashing, and the boat driver even shot at the (fake) shark with a shotgun. A very American ride, if you ask us.

We also went on the Jurassic Park ride, which is basically a boat that follows a track through a dinosaur enclosure. A T-Rex escapes and you have to outrun it on the boat through the flooded visitor's centre. Eventually you escape (after a really close call with the dinosaur) and you go down a steep 26 metre drop and get soaked at the end. The ride was really immersive and the drop was pretty scary -- Tristan screamed in a way Soph had never heard and it was hilarious. 10/10.

We were also considering going on the scariest ride in the park, the Flying Dinosaur. It's pretty high and you actually lay down and basically fly around the Jurassic Park area. Soph was really hesitant because of her fear of heights, but the test seat actually saved the day because the seats were too small anyway. The attendant helping us with the test seat was really nice about it and said "these seats are Japanese size" in a joking way, which was just what we needed to hear. This is probably a common experience of Western people who visit Japan, and it made Soph feel less alone.

The park was full of interesting food vendors -- halfway through the day Tristan got some pork ribs. We had an early dinner and decided to get some pizza from the Spider-Man area. We ordered four slices, expecting them to be Australian-sized slices. We didn't realise that these slices had to come as a meal, so we ended up with four individually boxed quarters of an enormous pizza and four drinks. The language barrier didn't help, so we just accepted it and ate our pizza.

After our pizza shop debacle, we decided to wander around a bit more, checking out the last of the shops. But honestly, most of the stuff was pretty gimmicky. The shirts weren't printed well and it all felt a bit like a tourist trap. So, we left the park with just a magnet, memories, pictures, and bellies full of food we didn't really want. Despite the ups and downs, we both agreed it was a good day overall. 

Soph was particularly proud for her handling a tough experience in the morning. She felt her feelings, took the time to process them, and then made a logical decision about whether to stay or go. It also helped that Tristan was there to talk through it with her -- without him, she would have left in a heartbeat, feeling completely unwelcome. But we stayed, and we had some good experiences on rides, met some nice people, and had some good food. 

After a long day, we hopped on the train and headed home. During our transfer from the train to the subway, we faced a choice: take the escalator or climb three flights of big steps. We decided to take the stairs. It was tough, but we made it to the top and felt really proud of ourselves. This sign at the station made us laugh:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.2" %}

So, despite some hard lessons, we learned a lot. We spent the rest of the day relaxing in our hotel room and prepared for a day of shopping the next day.

# Day 12: Shopping in Osaka

Yesterday, we had a bit of a late start, waking up around 9:30 am. It was our shopping day, so we got ready and headed out to Dōtonbori. Soph had to have another cheese coin, of course. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.3" %}

We explored Dōtonbori and many of its...ahem...interesting stores. It was a gorgeous, clear day so we also got some great pics along the canal.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.4" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.4-part-2" %}

We couldn't go past the enormous Don Quijote store -- it was six stories full of everything you could ever need, and a bunch of stuff that nobody in human history could ever need, like this tote bag:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.5" %}

Soph found some lipstick, and Tristan managed to snag a hat that actually fit his huge head. We also picked up some new earrings. Checking out was a bit of a challenge with the long lines and the tax-free confusion, but we managed to save about 10% thanks to our passports.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.6" %}

After we were done exploring Dōtonbori, we then made our way to Amerika-mura (アメリカ村). The area is a magnet for Japanese youth, with over 2,000 stores selling local and overseas fashion (mainly American).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.7" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.7-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.7-part-3" %}

While we were there, we stumbled upon this adorable sticker shop called [B-side Label](https://bside-label.com/en). They had so many unique designs, and Tristan even found a shirt that he absolutely loved. The lady at the checkout was incredibly sweet and seemed genuinely impressed with our attempts at speaking Japanese. She even gifted us a free sticker as a token of appreciation from the people of Japan. She even gave Tristan a  “Nihongo Jouzu” (日本語上手), which means "Japanese very good". It's always rewarding to hear that as we spent many hours trying to learn the language in the lead up to our trip, Tristan especially.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/9.8" %}

We continued our shopping spree, exploring vintage clothing stores and finding a cute, colorful jumper from Paragraph. It was basically Soph's personality in a jumper, so she had to have it. She was stoked that it fit her too! 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/10" %}

After all that shopping we were famished, so we hit up McDonald's. Tristan tried the barbecue soy sauce burger with bacon, and Soph stuck to her fries and melon Fanta. We realized too late that we should have just ordered a meal, but hey, you live and you learn!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/10.1" %}

We walked around the city a bit more, taking in the sights and sounds of Ōsaka. Pics or it didn't happen:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/10.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/10.2-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/10.2-part-3" %}

We decided to call it a day on the shopping front, having spent a bit more than we'd planned. Back at the hotel, we chilled out, did some laundry, and Tristan even treated himself to a *BathBeer* ™.

For dinner, we decided to splurge on some Kobe beef at a place we found on TripAdvisor. It was a grill-your-own-meat kind of place, which was a fun experience. We ordered our meats from an iPad on the wall and enjoyed some mega lemon sours. Soph even tried a piece of Tristan's wagyu steak and admitted it was pretty good!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/11" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/11-part-2" %}

We then spent some time enjoying the city at night. The signs Ōsaka is known for really came to life.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/11.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/11.1-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/11.1-part-3" %}

We ended the night at [The Australian Pub](https://www.theaustralianpub.com/), which was thankfully open on our last night in Ōsaka. We found this place on the internet a few months before our trip because we thought it would be cool to visit an Australian pub in Japan, and the fact that it had a "delicious fucking mess" on the menu had us sold.

We were not disappointed. The owner, Ōsaka Joe, is a super nice guy and spoke excellent English. He lived in Australia for a few years and wanted to either open a Japanese pub in Australia or an Australian pub in Ōsaka. We were glad he chose the latter!

It was refreshing to have a full-on conversation in English with someone other than each other. We had lots of drinks, shared some Vegemite cheese toast, and even scored some free buttery nipple shots with some fellow Aussies. Joe really had everything from Aus - he even had some Panadol and Berocca if you wanted an Aussie hangover cure!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/12" %} 

What a fun way to cap off our time in this incredible city. We stumbled back to our hotel around 12:30 am and crashed.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/osaka/13" %}