---
layout: post
title: Tōkyō • 東京
tags:
  - tokyo
  - kyoto
  - osaka
  - hiroshima
  - yamanouchi
image: /assets/uploads/images/tokyo-hero.jpg
---
# Day 1: The departure and our first night in Tōkyō
Our journey began on a Friday, the day we flew to Japan. We arrived at the Gold Coast Airport bright and early at 7:00 a.m. The check-in process was a breeze, and we flew through security with no hiccups. We were a bit bummed out about the lack of breakfast options at the international terminal, but we made up for it by amusing ourselves with some sketching. We had a good laugh as we tried to draw celebrities from memory: try and guess who this is (let's just say, we won't be quitting our day jobs anytime soon)!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/1" %}

Soon after becoming picasso incarnates, we were soon on the plane, chatting away as we waited in our seats before takeoff. We were a bit miffed to discover that all the in-flight entertainment came with a price tag. The guy next to Tristan, however, seemed to have a blast playing chess with his family throughout the flight. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/2" %}

The flight was long, about eight hours, and as we were landing, we had a bit of a delay when the pilot had to pull up to reattempt the landing. We touched down safely ten minutes later and made our way through passport control. Thanks to our thorough organisational skills, our Japanese international arrival requirements were already confirmed, so we were able to fast track our way through the quarantine checks.

We were happy to find our checked baggage waiting for us at Narita airport. Our next goal was to secure our pocket Wi-Fi at ABC Mart. With the help of a friendly airport worker (who seemed absolutely delighted to hear our first stop in Japan was ABC Mart), we made our way and had Wi-Fi ten minutes later. We had a bit of trouble finding the train to Shinjuku station. The ticketing system was a bit of a learning curve, but we managed to get the correct tickets with the help of a lovely station attendant, and hopped on the train. 

The journey was tiring, and Sophie started to get a headache. Thankfully, Tristan took over navigating, giving Sophie a much-needed break. We finally arrived in Shinjuku, and the sight of the city at night was an instant cure. The streets were alive with lights, and the small, hole-in-the-wall restaurants and bars near our hotel were buzzing with happy people enjoying their Friday night.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/3" %}

We dropped our bags at the hotel and went out to grab some food. Finding a place with an English menu and vegetarian options was a bit of a challenge, but we eventually found a semi-Italian place and enjoyed some chips and pizza. We weren't fussy after a nine hour flight!

We ended the night with a visit to FamilyMart, where Sophie fell in love with the cream puffs. We enjoyed a strong zero outside the store, following the local custom of not walking while eating or drinking. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/4" %}

Back at the hotel, we discovered the joy of Japanese baths. They're deep and fill up quickly, providing a perfect end to a long day. We fell asleep almost instantly, ready for the next day's adventures. 


# Day 2: Our First Full Day in Tōkyō
The next day, still adjusting to life in a different country, we braved the cold and explored the Shinjuku Gyo-en national garden. Despite the winter season, the park was beautiful, and we even found some early-blooming cherry blossoms. We also discovered that bins are a rare find in Japan, so we had to carry our rubbish around until we found one. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/5" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/5-part-2" %}

We ventured to the outskirts of the park area and stumbled upon a greenhouse that boasted various flora and certainly lived up to the "green" part of its name. It was a warm (and humid!) reprieve from the cold, dry air outside.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/5.1" %}

We spent the rest of the day adjusting to our surroundings and trying new snacks at the various convenience stores. We explored Shinjuku at night, and Sophie spotted a hilarious jumper at a H&M which glorifies an Adelaide sporting team (which probably doesn't exist).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/6" %}

Tristan ended the day with a *BathBeer* ™, his new favourite way to unwind after a long day on his feet.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/6.1" caption="Kanpai! • かんぱい！" %}

# Day 3: The Quest for a Cream Puff
Today, we started our day in Shinjuku, taking some pictures around our neighborhood before heading to a local cafe chain called [Dotour Coffee Shop](https://www.doutor.co.jp/). We indulged in the thickest, fluffiest cheese toast you could ever imagine. Tristan tried matcha for the first time and loved it, while Sophie stuck to her tried-and-true apple juice.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/7/" %}

Our next stop was Shibuya, but we got a bit lost trying to find the train station. It was hidden in a weird spot underground, but we eventually found it and hopped on a train to Yoyogi Park. This was our first experience riding the wonder that is the Tokyo subway!

The park was a bit muddy and less maintained than the one we visited yesterday, but it was bustling with people and dogs. We spent a good twenty minutes dog-watching, spotting breeds from huskies to poodles to spaniels. One particular dog caught our attention--a big fluffy dog in a purple onesie, with its fur sticking out from the feet and head. It was quite a sight!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="assets/uploads/images/tokyo/8" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/8-part-2" %}

After the dog park, we visited the Meiji Shrine, a massive park area in Tōkyō (東京) that honors the legacy of Emperor Meiji, who is credited for introducing a series of changes which catapulted Japan to the modern world stage. The shrine was huge and had a spiritual vibe to it. We were hesitant to participate in the rituals because we didn't want to appear insensitive, but we felt privileged to witness such a deep cultural experience.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/9/" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/9-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/9-part-3" %}

We also tried Dango, a skewer of rice dumplings glazed in a sweet soy sauce. It was deliciously puffy and sticky, but as was becoming a common theme in Japan, we had to hunt down a bin to dispose of the skewer.
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/10" %}

Our next stop was Shibuya, where we planned to visit a perfume factory called [The Flavor Design](https://www.theflavordesign.com). However, we didn't realize we needed a reservation, so we booked a slot for the next day and headed to the Sky Deck in the Shibuya train station. The view of the city from the twelfth floor was breathtaking, and we spent a good ten minutes soaking it in. Sophie also got some good landscape photography practice, as you can see here:
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/11" %}

We then decided to visit the [Cream Puff Factory in Shimokitazawa](https://en.japantravel.com/tokyo/shirohiges-cream-puff-factory/40958). The journey there was a bit confusing, but we eventually made it. Unfortunately, there were a few people ahead of us on the wait list. After a quick conversation with the attendant in broken Japanese, we managed to book our spot for two hours later. With time to kill, we decided to explore the neighbourhood of Shimokitazawa. It was a hipster area, with lots of vintage shops and cafes. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/12" %}

We stumbled upon a Chinese new year market in a residential area, which housed a variety of stalls selling everything from food to clothes to plants. Feeling peckish, we enjoyed our first vegan gyoza of the trip, which was absolutely delightful.
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/13" %}

After pottering around for another hour, we returned to the Cream Puff Factory and were given our own private room. The Totoro cream puff we shared was absolutely delicious, filled with the most delightful strawberry cream (as indicated via the pink sakura adorning his left ear--each unique flavour afforded Totoro a new accessory). It was a popular spot, with everyone taking selfies with their cream puffs--including us:
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/14" %}

After our cream puff factory adventure, we hopped back on the train and headed to Akihabara, known for its electronics, ramen, themed cafes, and anime/manga paraphernalia. We found [Super Potato](https://www.superpotato.com/), an electronics store, where Tristan tried to find a Game Boy, but they didn't have any. Despite this, we had a blast exploring the store's retro games and navigating its steep stairs (we're fit gods after all, so we didn't need the elevator).
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/15" %}

Next, we stumbled upon a ramen place that offered vegan options. The vegan ramen with soy sauce broth was so good, Sophie couldn't stop raving about it. Tristan had the tonkotsu ramen, which he also loved. While we were waiting in line to order, the server correctly assumed, because we are white, that wanted the plant-based option. Now that's customer service!
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/16" %}

After our ramen feast, we did some more electronic shopping. We scored an SD card on sale and a random SD card adapter for Sophie's MacBook. We then did a few laps of Akihabara, taking in all the stores and even trying our luck with some capsule toys. Sophie got a Tamagotchi one while Tristan got a Pokémon one. They weren't exactly what we'd hoped for, but it was fun nonetheless. We even managed to score a *Spirited Away* coffee mug from a Final Fantasy store nearby.
    
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/17" %}

We also ventured into a camera store filled with vintage cameras. It looked closed, but the door was open, and the lights were on. Suddenly, a Japanese man appeared, pushing a trolley and repeating the English words "nine to five only!". We apologised and left, but it was a funny experience.

We continued our exploration, spotting a fluffy cat in a cat cafe window and making a few more laps around Akihabara. We then hopped on the train and saw some guys playing football in the middle of the night in an empty carpark. It was a strange sight, but also quite fun to watch.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/18" %}

We ended our day by getting lost in Shinjuku station, which was a maze of signs and platforms. We eventually found our way out, only to be charged for walking through the station. We laughed it off and headed back to our hotel, stopping at FamilyMart for some snacks. Sophie tried a crepe, but it wasn't as good as the cream puff. We also enjoyed some drinks outside the FamilyMart, like true degenerates, where we had a good laugh over our "*Nemon*" joke. It all started when Tristan misread "*lemon*" as "*nemon*" on a TikTok video. We had been spotting lemons everywhere since that moment (we even saw a lemon bubble bar at Lush which we obviously had to buy).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/19" %}

Despite walking almost twenty kilometers and getting a bit of chafe on our legs, we had a fantastic day. It was a satisfying day, and excited for what tomorrow will bring, we indulged a relaxing bath and a good night's sleep.

# Day 4: The Perfume Factory
The next day, we woke up a bit later and started off with our favorite cheese toast. Pics or it didn't happen:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/20" %}

Our main mission for the day was to get our Studio Ghibli tickets. We headed to Lawson's, where they have a machine for ticket purchases. We may have bent the rules a bit by pretending to be Japanese residents, but hey, we heard it worked for others, so why not give it a shot? *If you're interested in doing the same, here's the [guide](https://www.reddit.com/r/ghibli/comments/yr4c9d/how_to_buy_ghibli_museum_tickets_as_a_tourist_2022/) we followed.*

The ticket machine process was a bit of a comedy show. After heading to the service counter to finalise the tickets, Tristan had to sign his name in katakana, and let's just say his Japanese writing skills need a bit of work. The attendant even gave him a mini lesson on how to write it correctly. Despite the confusion, we managed to get our Studio Ghibli tickets and kept them safe back at the hotel.

Next, we headed to Lululemon because Sophie needed a bigger bag to carry around on our adventures. We found the perfect bag, but we opted to take the day to think on it before making a purchase because it was a bit pricey. The store attendant was super nice and strongly suggested we visit Mount Fuji, which we considered adding to our itinerary just because of his charisma. We vowed to return to the store later in the day, and he wished us well and looked forward to seeing us again.

After that, we caught a train to Shibuya for our perfume-making appointment. We arrived early, so we spent some time exploring the area, including the massive Google building. We also tried to find the famous [Hachikō statue](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hachikō) but had no luck. We even ventured into an arcade, but didn't really have enough time to spend there.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/20.1" %}

Finally, it was time for our perfume-making session. We each chose three base scents and worked with a specialist to create our own unique perfumes. The process was so much fun--even Tristan, who was initially skeptical of this part of the trip, had a blast! 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/21" %}

We ended up with two beautiful bottles of perfume that capture exactly what we were going for. Tristan aimed to emulate the smell of a rainforest, while Sophie's was to capture a sweeter-yet-elegant aroma. The girls at the perfume place were so kind, and even complimented Sophie's blue eyes and beanie. After a bit of a chat with them (and scoring a "nihongo jouzu" from one of them), we walked around a bit more towards Harajuku, grabbed some takoyaki, and bought some Japanese hard candy. We also explored Cat Street, which is filled with fashionable second-hand shops.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/21.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/21.1-part-2" %}

After a long day of exploring, we found ourselves getting a bit peckish from all the walking. Luckily, we stumbled upon Coco Curry, a popular curry franchise. We were thrilled to discover that this particular branch offered a vegetarian curry sauce, which apparently is only available in about ten of their branches. The vegetarian curry was absolutely delicious and so filling that we felt like we needed a nap right after! Tristan opted for the chicken curry, which was equally delightful. We also couldn't get enough of their water - it was just really good, we can't explain it (we were probably just really thirsty).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/22" %}

We initially planned to catch a train back to Shinjuku, but ended up walking all the way back. The walk was surprisingly pleasant, taking us across a beautiful bridge and park. We passed by some software company office buildings overlooking the park, which seemed like a really nice place to work. The weather was perfect for a walk--cloudy and cool.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/22.1" %}

On our way back, we stopped by a stationary shop that was filled with all sorts of stickers. We picked up a few for ourselves and some for Sophie's mum who loves scrapbooking. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/22.2" %}

We then fulfilled our promise and returned to Lululemon, where we secured the bag we wanted earlier that day. We were relieved to find it still there and just as perfect as we remembered. Thanks to some tax legislation, we managed to save 10% on the bag by showing our passports. We also caught up with the friendly staff member from earlier, who immediately recognised us and seemed equally excited to see us again. He even gave Sophie a pat on the back as we were leaving, which is quite unusual for Japanese people. We were so impressed with their service that we left a five-star Google review.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/23" %}

After a bit of rest at the hotel, we decided to grab dinner at a local shop right outside. The shop boasted no limit to their deep-fried vegetable options on skewers, including deep-fried cheese! We ordered a variety of items, including potato, onion, asparagus, cheese, rice cake with cheese, deep-fried tofu, and french fries. The food was delicious, with the cheese being the star of the show.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/23.1" %}

After dinner, we stopped by FamilyMart for some dessert (of course). Sophie got a soft serve ice cream, while Tristan opted for a beer. We enjoyed our treats outside, listening to the chatter of a group of people nearby. It was a nice way to wind down after a long day.

After returning to our hotel, we checked the weather for our next city and were surprised to see snow forecasted! Being typical Aussies, neither of us had seen snow before, so we were keen to see if the forecast would come to fruition.

# Day 5: JR Passes and Imperial Gardens
Our last full day in Tōkyō started early with a 7:30 train to obtain our JR passes. If you don't know, JR passes allow tourists to pay a flat rate for unlimited travel on most Japanese train lines over a set period of time. Although it isn't super cheap, it does end up saving you money if you are planning on travelling between multiple cities and on JR lines within cities.

As we paid for our passes before we left Australia, we needed to take our paperwork to a JR pass office to activate and obtain our passes. We originally planned to do this at Shinjuku Station, but we were a bit early as we planned to embark on our day trip to Nikkō（日光）as early as possible. We headed to Tōkyō Station instead as their office opened earlier. After a short wait, we had our passes and were ready to go! Our unexpected trip to Tōkyō Station was worth it - it's hard to believe such a big, busy station is tucked away inside a stunning heritage building.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/24" %}

But alas, it was not meant to be. In hindsight we could have made it work, but the combination of our first time using the ticket machine and the time crunch of having a train to catch led us to believe that despite having our JR passes, we still had to pay around $200 to go to Nikkō. This was one of the (thankfully few) stressful moments of the trip, so after throwing in the towel, we took a breather and decided to make the most of our day in Tōkyō instead. Here is a picture of us looking sad about missing out on Nikkō:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/24.1" %}

Luckily for us, Tōkyō Station is a short walk away from the Imperial Palace and its surrounding gardens. On our way we made a pit stop at Starbucks--our first Japanese Starbucks experience! Tristan tucked into a matcha donut and a cappuccino, while Soph had a caramel frappuccino and New York cheesecake.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/25" %}

After we finished our breakfast, we stumbled upon a park where we spotted a lone swan in a river. We love an unbothered queen, claiming an entire river as her own.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/25.1" %}

After finally reaching the Palace gates, we quickly realized that getting inside the palace area, where the emperor lives, was a bit tricky without a guided tour. So, we stayed on the outskirts and enjoyed the gardens instead.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/25.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/25.2-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/25.2-part-3" %}

Despite the rain, runners were out in full force in one section of the gardens. Even though it looks the same as the rest of the gardens area, this specific spot was the runners area for some reason. You do you, babes.

After a bit more wandering in the rain, we found ourselves in a different park. The sun soon emerged, bathing everything in a gorgeous, warm glow.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/26" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/26-part-2" %}

We then headed back to our hotel for a much-needed nap, but not without first stopping for a snacks, of course! Soph had a pizza bao, which was absolutely delicious, while Tristan opted for a chicken thigh skewer. It was this night that Soph found her favourite peach-flavoured drink.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/26.2" %}

We brought our food back to the hotel room like the gremlins we are, and then promptly fell into a food coma.

While Soph slept for a few hours, Tristan had a shorter nap and did some planning for our upcoming trip to Kyōto (京都). Our chaotic morning was a good reminder that we needed to be more organised for the rest of our trip. We also booked tickets for the Kyōto Aquarium, which we were super excited about!

Later on, we ventured out into Shinjuku at night after trying to figure out our hotel's Japanese washing machine (which proved difficult to say the least). We took some photos and had a few drinks.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/27" %}

We decided to try some sushi from a place where you order from a screen and your food is delivered to your table via a conveyor belt. It was a unique experience, and the sushi was delicious! Tristan discovered he likes tuna sushi. Unfortunately the only thing available for Sophie on her vegetarian diet was cucumber sushi and some french fries. Finding vegetarian food in Japan is a bit tricky, but we at least felt like we were making progress, and will hopefully be able to hunt down some more options in the future if we planned ahead.

We spent the rest of the night walking around, taking photos, and even got some kawaii photos taken at an arcade. We also saw a billboard on the side of a building near Shibuya crossing, which featured an adorable animated cat. The billboard offered an optical illusion of sorts by wrapping around the building's corner, and some clever framing made the cat seem to extend beyond the bounds of the billboard. It was a really cool sight!

Shortly after, we noticed a cat cafe, which we almost went into until we accidentally stepped on a tatami mat with shoes on and got yelled at. Oops!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/tokyo/28" %}

We ended the night with another trip to FamilyMart for some more food and drink outside the shop. At some point, a guy in a truck approached and seemed to want to park exactly where we were sitting. We weren't sure how long he was waiting for us to move, but we eventually got the hint, moved on, and headed back to the hotel. We had planned to pack, but we were too tired, so we decided to leave it for the morning. We did, however, manage to have a bath each, which was a nice way to end the day.