---
layout: post
title: "Kyōto • 京都"
tags: [tokyo, kyoto]
image: /assets/uploads/images/kyoto-hero.jpg
---

# Day 6: Off to Kyōto
We started our day bright and early in Tokyo, packing up our stuff in record time - just about an hour. A quick fit check:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/1" caption="It's giving Garfield." %}

By 8:00 am, we were ready to bid farewell to Shinjuku -- but we couldn't leave without one final visit to our favorite breakfast spot, Doutor. Thankfully it's a franchise so this certainly wasn't our last serve of cheese toast, but the staff were always lovely. It felt bittersweet to already be moving on to a new city.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/1.1" %}

Our next stop was the Tōkyō Metropolitan Government Building (東京都庁, AKA Tochō), a chilly 20-minute walk away. It was the coldest morning we've experienced in Tokyo so far, but we braved the chill, eager to take in the view from the observation deck.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/1.2" caption="Tochō in all its glory." %}

However, we arrived a bit too early - the deck only opened at 9:30, and we were there at 9. With our check-out time looming at 11:00 am and our Shinkansen train to catch at 12:20 pm, we decided not to wait around. We didn't want to risk messing up our schedule, so we 
made the tough call to leave.

On our way back to the hotel, we stopped at Shinjuku Station to secure our train tickets ahead of time. It was a bit of a steep learning curve, but after a bit of fumbling around, we finally figured out how to use our JR pass properly and get free tickets. It was a small victory, but after yesterday's kerfuffle, we were thrilled to have a win. With our tickets in hand and our train departure time set, we felt a sense of accomplishment. We were 
actually doing this!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/2" caption="The last of the sunny weather for the next few days." %}

As we neared our hotel, we decided to take advantage of the abundance of vending machines that Japan has to offer and treat ourselves to a little something - Miruku Cocoa　(ミルクココア) (what we thought was "miracle", but it turns out is just "milk"). It's basically hot chocolate, but oh-so-delicious. The vending machine kept them hot too, so it had the added bonus of keeping our hands warm.

{% include video.html video_id="D80RPxBIM9U" %}

After a cozy hot chocolate session, we defrosted in our warm hotel room, got our bags together and checked out of the hotel. The process was super easy -- we just had to press a button on a touch screen in the lobby. We made our way to the subway and almost lugged our bags down the stairs, but two kind ladies, who didn't speak a word of English, pointed us towards an elevator. It took us a moment, but we finally got the message and thanked them.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/3" caption="We got really good at waiting for trains by the end of this trip." %}

Once on the subway, we were lucky enough to snag some seats and enjoyed a ride through the outer suburbs of Tokyo. Tristan had a bit of a mishap when the train accelerated and his bags, which were on wheels, went flying towards a group of schoolgirls. He had to quickly retrieve them before we had a lawsuit on our hands, and even managed to squeak out an apology in broken Japanese.

{% include video.html video_id="XPPW-SKlTVw" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/3.1" %}

Now at a new station, we were waiting for our first Shinkansen of the trip. We felt like kings living in luxury while waiting in the heated passengers only area -- it had its own small store full of cheap snacks. We stocked up on some onigiri and coffee and settled in.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/3.2" %}

Before we knew it, our Shinkansen was about to arrive. With a little help from a kind stranger, we managed to find our way to the correct terminal. Tristan was a champion and lugged both of our suitcases up the stairs, which he did for the rest of the trip.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/4" caption="Luckily he never skips leg day."  %}

We were early enough to see our very first Shinkansen roll into the station. It was surreal seeing this marvel of engineering in person.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/5" %}

Boarding was easy - we put our luggage in their compartment at the back of the carriage and enjoyed the legroom of our comfy seats. The train was pretty empty, so it was nice to feel like we weren't getting in anybody's way. We settled in for the ride and we soon departed the station.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/5.1" %}

About half an hour into our journey, we caught an unexpected glimpse at the iconic Mt. Fuji (富士山, pronounced Fujisan, which translates to Mr. Fuji). Mt. Fuji is notoriously hard to spot because it is often blanketed in fog, so our hopes for seeing it, especially on the train, were low. Our surprise only added to our excitement -- the older Japanese businessmen sitting nearby must have rolled their eyes at our shocked gasps and incessant camera clicking.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/5.2" caption="No words." %}

Little did we know that this wasn't the only time we would be in awe on this train trip -- a short while later the weather darkened and white fields and trees started to appear - snow!! The forecast was true and we were stoked. The train had to slow down due to the snow, but we didn't mind. It gave us more time to appreciate the beauty of the Japanese countryside blanketed in white.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/6" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/6-part-2" %}

Our two hour train trip had transported us from the bustling city of Tokyo to the winter wonderland of Kyōto. We basically sprinted out of the station to experience snow falling from the sky for the first time ever.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/6.1" %}

We navigated through the snow with our luggage, taking care not to slip on the icy patches. It was a bit of a struggle, but luckily our hotel was only a short walk from the station. We made it to our hotel, the Solaria Premium Hotel, which was right on the esplanade of a beautiful river bank. This was one of the nicer hotels we had booked for our trip, so we were really looking forward to checking in.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7" %}

The hotel was lovely, and we were excited to find out that it had an onsen, a traditional Japanese hot spring. After settling into our hotel, we dropped our bags off at our room and made our way back outside to explore the snowy city.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7.1-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7.1-part-3" %}

We had dinner at a small asian fusion restaurant near the river -- nothing special, but we did get a kick out of our waiter who was a big Radiohead fan (like us). We did some more exploring after dinner and got some cool photos of Kyōto at night.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/7.2-part-2" %}

We even found a cool guitar store in a nearby shopping area. Soph got her Dad a capsule toy from a vending machine. Gift for Dad - check!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/8" %}

Eventually we ended our day by the river, watching the beautiful flow of the water (and sinking some tinnies too -- you can take the Aussie out of Australia, but you can't take the Australia out of the Aussie). We headed back to hotel to relax (in a big Japanese bath, of course) after a big day of travel and planned to visit the bamboo forest and try out the vegetarian gyoza restaurant.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/8.1" %}

# Day 7: Bamboo Forest and Tenryū-ji
Tristan got an early start and decided to visit the Onsen in the hotel. It was a steamy, relaxing experience, despite sharing the bath with a couple of old Japanese dudes. After a refreshing soak, he went for a walk, grabbed a coffee from a vending machine, and did some stretches. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/9" caption="Sunrise in snowy Kyoto." %}

Soph, on the other hand, decided to catch up on some much-needed sleep. She was still asleep when Tristan got back to the room. Typical.

A bit later on, Soph lifted her suitcase and pulled a back muscle. After resting for an hour or so, she was a bit better so we ventured out for breakfast. The snowy Kyōto streets were stunning in the morning sun.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/9.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/9.1-part-2" %}

We found a Melbourne-style cafe, [Common Well](https://www.instagram.com/commonwell_kyoto/?hl=en), after a 15-minute walk and enjoyed some focaccia with butter and apricot jam, minestrone soup, and a caramel yuzu latte. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/9.2" %}

After breakfast, we were keen to make our way to Arashiyama Bamboo Grove (better known as the Bamboo Forest). We decided against biking because of Soph's back and the icy conditions, so we took two subways instead. Thanks to our JR passes, the journey was painless and free.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/10" %}

We reached Arashiyama (嵐山) Station and found this gorgeous art installation nearby. It's called the Kimono Forest and is composed of 600 poles covered in kimono fabric. The poles form a trail to Tenryū-ji Temple (天龍寺). We didn't have time to visit the temple, but we did enjoy the art installation.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/10.1" caption="Pink is definitely his colour." %}

To our delight, on the other side of the station were a number of food vendors serving delicious Japanese food. We both had deep fried vegetable gyoza which was served with a sweet and sour sauce -- absolutely delicious.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/10.2" %}

The bamboo forest was a sight to behold, but the icy conditions made it a bit of a challenge. We had to tread *veeeerrry carefully* to avoid slipping, and the crowd of tourists didn't help. Regardless, the forest was beautiful. The bamboo trees are so high and their soil was peppered with snow.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/11" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/11-part-2" %}

Our adventure continued with a visit to a sprawling, lush estate that belonged to Ōkōchi Denjirō (大河内 傳次郎, 1898-1962), a Japanese silent movie actor. The estate is at the end of the winding forest paths and costs ¥1000, around $10 AUD per person. The cost deterred most tourists, so the snow was mostly untouched and it was quiet in the best way.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/11.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/11.1-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/11.1-part-3" %}

The estate was at the top of the hill too, so the views were *incredible*.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/12" %}

We spent about an hour exploring the estate, taking photos, and even enjoying some tea and biscuits at the tea house.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/13" %}

Afterward, we headed back down, taking a different route through the bamboo forest. By now we had worked up an appetite, so we found a different place to eat. Tristan found some fried chicken and Soph got a potato croquette.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/13.1" %}

We were delighted to see some blooming cherry blossoms nearby, which was surprising because we were about a month early for cherry blossom season.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/13.2" %}

With Soph's hangriness under control, we finally managed to peel ourselves away from gawking at the flowers and walked around Arashiyama in search of somewhere else to explore. There are temples abound here, and we quickly stumbled upon Tenryū-ji (天龍寺), a 678-year-old Japanese buddhist temple that featured three beautiful buildings and Sōgen Pond (曹源池), which was full of koi. The temple grounds originally contained around 150 sub-temples, but all of them have been destroyed. Temples in Japan are particularly susceptible to fire, and this temple was most recently rebuilt around 1900. Today, only traces of the original design remain.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14" %}

We took off our shoes to walk inside the main building -- it was surreal walking on the tatami mats and admiring the intricate paintings on the walls, doors and ceiling. We didn't take many photos inside because we wanted to be respectful.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.1" %}

The grounds were covered in a thick layer of snow, and the lake was clear enough to catch glimpses of the koi every now and again.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.2-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.2-part-3" %}

As the day turned into night, we made our way back to the station and hopped on a tram packed with people. The payment system was confusing, but we managed to figure it out without pissing off too many Japenese people. We stopped at FamilyMart for some snacks and decided to have a chill night after such a long day. Here is Tristan with his second-favourite snack, tuna onigiri.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.3" caption="His favourite snack is Sophie, of course." %}

For dinner we decided to go with an easy vegetarian dinner, italian. It felt a bit weird eating pizza in Japan, but the restaurant was nice and the service was great. After the day that we had, we just wanted something that was easy. We even had some wine, which was very unlike us (Soph usually opts for a G&T, while Tristan is a beer guy through and through). But, when in Rome (in Japan)!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.4" %}

Even though we were dead tired, that didn't stop us from exploring more of Kyōto late at night (we blame the wine). We crossed the bridge and went to Book Off, Japan's answer to EB Games. Soph found some cool Japanese Batman and Star Wars paraphernalia, while Tristan was glued to the Yu-Gi-Oh and anime sections. He has a Dark Magician shirt from Yu-Gi-Oh, so it was cool to see its actual card. We didn't end up buying anything, but it was cool to see the things we love in Japanese.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.5" %}

On our way back to the hotel, we saw a restaurant that served horse meat (and was very proud of it, too). You do you, Japan.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/14.6" caption="I beg to differ." %}

We soon headed back to the hotel for our nightly ritual -- snacks, beer and a bath. What a great day.

# Day 8: The aquarium and the gyozas
The morning started with a hearty breakfast at a French cafe, [Café Bistrot Aux Bons Morceaux](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Café+BISTROT+AUX+BONS+MORCEAUX/@35.0115492,135.7628289,16z/data=!4m10!1m2!2m1!1sfrench+cafe+kyoto!3m6!1s0x600108940105c7eb:0xd64cd755a2722e91!8m2!3d35.009569!4d135.7699633!15sChFmcmVuY2ggY2FmZSBreW90b1oTIhFmcmVuY2ggY2FmZSBreW90b5IBBmJpc3Ryb5oBI0NoWkRTVWhOTUc5blMwVkpRMEZuU1VSb04yWTNja2xCRUFF4AEA!16s/g/1tfmn8_4?entry=ttu). Soph was instantly sold on the bread - waiters roam around with a basket full of different types of bread, and you can have as many as you'd like. They even had a bread with bits of cheese baked into it - if you go here, we definitely recommend getting that one if you love cheese. For the main meals, Tristan had a smoked sausage with two fried eggs, a side salad (which he didn't touch, because, well, why would he?), and a couple of potatoes. Soph indulged in a delicious French onion soup, which was cheesy and delicious. We also enjoyed a juice and a hot coffee, which they kept refilling.

As we were leaving, we had a bit of an odd encounter with a pair of women who seemed to find us amusing for some reason. We didn't stick around to find out why. Instead, we quickly paid and left, only to be stopped by a knock on the window. Turns out, we'd left our scarf behind. 

Next, we hopped on the subway to visit the aquarium. The journey was a bit of a trek, especially with the snow, but it was worth it. A quick fit check, of course:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/15" %}

After a quick journey on the subway, we arrived at the aquarium. We had a bit of a hiccup at the start because we booked tickets for the wrong day, but with the help of Google Translate's voice translate function, they arranged a refund and we purchased new tickets. They were so helpful and understanding even with the language barrier.

After getting the ticket fiasco sorted, we were in. It didn't take Soph long to find another animal to make her entire personality - the Chinese Giant Salamander. One of the largest amphibians in the world, they're native to China and were introduced to the Kyōto Prefecture in the 1950s. Sadly they're critically endangered, so it was cool to read about the Aquarium's conservation efforts. Soph fell in love with them because they pile on top of each other. The picture on the left is a Japanese Giant Salamander, and the dog pile on the right is all Chinese Giant Salamanders.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/16" %}

Next we moved on to the seals. The tank housed both fur seals and earless seals, but the earless seals were sleeping so they were out of the action. The fur seals were so active, always jumping in and out of the water to pose for photos, zoom underwater and steal a fish from the handlers. We could've watched them for hours. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/16.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/16.1-part-2" %}

The penguin area was next. We were delighted to see little cape penguins - native to South Africa, so they're comfortable in Kyōto's climate of warm summers and cold winters. They all had their own names, like Taco (たこ), and we saw this amazing map of the penguins' relationships (the penguins and handlers they love, hate, and their children). Tristan even had a staring contest with one of them (the penguin won, of course).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/16.2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/16.2-part-2" %}

We then came indoors to the Sea of Kyōto section, which houses around fifty species of fish, stingrays and Japanese pilchards (small fish that move in unison in a large school) in their 500 ton tank. The tank is 9 meters deep and 22 meters wide, so it was pretty impressive. When we were in the early stages of planning our trip this was one of the first attractions on our list, so it was really cool to see it in person. 

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/17" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/17-part-2" %}

Next up was the jellyfish -- wow. We had never seen some of these species before and it was mesmerising to see them up close. They even had a display showing the growth stages of jellyfish from day one to two months, which was really cool to see.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18-part-3" %}

After seeing those little floaty guys, we reached the last section of the aquarium - the Finding Nemo Cast and Others section (that's what we assume it's called anyway). So cool to see clownfish in person as well as the other cool species that had on display. They also had some amazing jellyfish pendants hanging from the ceiling!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.1" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.1-part-1" %}

We made our way home after finding a cool little cafe that was housed in an old train. Tristan had a hot dog and Soph devoured a cinnamon pretzel.

We stopped off at our hotel room to squeeze in a quick nap before heading off to explore the smaller laneways nearby. They were full of small, family-owned restaurants that were a delight for the senses (nose and eyes in particular).

For dinner we took a chance on an inviting basement restaurant. They use an app that customers have on their phone to take orders, but we needed a phone number that could accept texts to do that. Because we were relying on Wifi only to avoid roaming fees, that wasn't an option. The waiter eventually just gave us his phone to order, which is when we discovered this was yet another restaurant that didn't have a ton of great vegetarian options. The waiter was really helpful (with the assistance of Google Translate, again) and Soph enjoyed some grilled veges on the grill.

It wasn't super filling so we decided to try another place. This time, we researched vegetarian options on google and found a decent-looking gyoza place, ChaoChao Gyoza in Shijo-Kawaramachi (四条河原町). We eventually found it and knew it would be delicious because it was packed with only white people (being plant based is white people behaviour, of course). We had to wait for a short while because it was super popular - luckily we were able to wait inside.

This place was incredible. The kitchen is out in the open so you chat with the staff while they work. They had a set menu that was a sight for sore eyes:

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.3" caption="As soon as we saw the Fried Cheese we knew we were home." %}

Every single bite of the gyoza was a trip to heaven. We each had a set menu, and we had every kind of gyoza covered between us. Because Tristan wasn't as hungry, Soph got to try all the gyoza. Between that, the friendly staff and the general fun vibe of the restaurant, this was a real highlight of the trip.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.4" caption="This spread lasted not even five minutes." %}

Tristan ordered a Red Eye, which is made of beer and tomato juice. It sounds weird because it is - the confused look on the waitress's face when he ordered it was priceless. Tristan took one sip and immediately regretted his choice (boys, amirite?).

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.5" %}

We also ordered warm sake, something we had both wanted to try the entire trip, and thankfully it was much tastier than the Red Eye. The waitress asked us if we knew what 'Kampai' meant, and we proudly responded, "Of course we know Kampai!" We clinked our glasses together and took a sip. It was strong, almost like wine, but tasty nonetheless.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.6" %}

We were reluctant to leave because it was so much fun drinking, eating and chatting to the staff, but lucky for us the good times didn't stop there. We walked out and it was snowing so heavily! It was so thick and powdery - after the experience we just had, we felt like we were in a movie.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/18.7" %}

We decided to head back to our hotel and visit the onsen. If you're not familiar, onsens are public baths that are a hallmark of traditional public baths before modern plumbing was invented. It's very normal in Japanese culture, and as bath lovers, we wanted to give it a go. We couldn't go together as men and women bathe separately, rightfully so.

You need to be fully naked and shower before and after the bath to keep it clean. We were a bit nervous at first, but once you get over the initial shock of being naked in front of strangers, it's a really relaxing experience. The water is heated by the natural hot springs in the area, and in our hotel there was a bath both inside and outside. We both opted for the outside bath as the cold winter air was a nice contrast to the hot water. We both really enjoyed it and would definitely do it again.

We regrouped outside of the bathing area and headed back to our room. The night was a much-needed win after many lacklustre vegetarian meals. Japanese people are known for their incredible cuisine, not for their incredible *plant-based* cuisine. It felt reassuring to finally find a place that enthusiastically served food that fit Soph's dietary needs. We were so full and relaxed that we fell asleep almost instantly.

# Day 9: Switching it up
The next morning, we woke up early and headed out for breakfast. We initially wanted to go to a place called Smart Coffee for some pancakes, but there was a long wait, so we headed to our fave breakfast franchise - you already know which one.

After the craziness of the days prior, we decided to have a more chill day. We headed to the Kyōto National Garden, which was a beautiful sight with all of the snow melting in the warm sun.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/19" %}

We stumbled upon the Kyōto Imperial Palace inside the gardens and decided to explore it. It was a quiet, serene experience, with only a few people around. We strolled around the gardens, admiring the buildings where emperors once met with important people.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20-part-2" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20-part-3" %}

Fun fact: Kyōto (which literally means capital city) was the capital of Japan from 794 - 1868, until the Emperor's residence was moved to Tōkyō during the Meiji restoration, which automatically made it the new capital of Japan. It has been destroyed by fire and been rebuilt eight times -- the current version was built in 1855.

The palace is comprised of a number of small buildings. One of our favourites was the Shishinden (紫宸殿), which was used for enthronments of new Emperors.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.1" %}

We also loved the Kogosho (小御所) building, which was used as a ceremonial hall and a place for the Emperor to meet with military leaders.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.2" %}

We learned about the fascinating games the nobles used to play, like Kyokusui -- played at the beginning of March, they floated a sake cup down the pond in the Oikeniwa Garden and coming up with an improvised poem before it floated past them.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.3" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.3-part-2" %}

Another game they played was Kemari, an ancient Japanese foot ball game played by courtiers where they aimed to keep the ball off the ground for as long as possible. We loved learning about these games because even though we think of them as these stoic, serious people, they were in many ways just like us. They enjoyed the frivolity of royalty and power, but sometimes there's nothing better than kicking a ball around with your mates.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.4" %}

The grounds were very well kept and a joy to photograph. There was so much detail everywhere and it was a very calming experience despite being in the middle of the city.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.5" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.5-part-2" %}

After we left we tuned in to the Hottest 100 countdown, which was a great soundtrack for our walk to lunch. It was a 45-minute walk, but it was flat, cold and a great opportunity to chat and explore the suburbs of Kyōto.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.6" %}

We eventually arrived at our favourite gyoza place we discovered the night before -- it was so good that we had to come back one more time. The staff remembered us from the night before and were happy we returned.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.7" %}

After fuelling up, we returned to our hotel to check out and move on to our new lodging nearby. It was a bit of a trek, especially with our heavy luggage and the textured, icy pavement. It was a slog but the thought of a nice, warm bath at the end of the day kept us going. We spotted a couple of crows and a cool vegan cafe on the way.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/20.8" %}

When we arrived, we discovered that we actually had to check in at a different location about a 10 minute drive away. Soph was especially frustrated after a big day of walking, so Tristan jumped in a taxi by himself to sort it out and Soph waited at the house with the luggage. The taxi was expensive but it was a cool experience.

Eventually Tristan sorted it out and gave Soph a code to enter the accommodation while he made his way home. We were staying in a gorgeous traditional home tucked away in a dense residential area. It had two stories, a kitchen, a traditional dining table (sitting on the floor), a TV and an enormous bath (we like baths, ok?). It was such a cool place that it was totally worth the struggle, but we vowed to double check the check-in requirements for the rest of the trip.

After such a tiring day, we decided to just have snacks for dinner. Soph headed out to Lawson to stock up on snacks. It was her first time venturing out on her own, which was especially milestone-y because she had to talk to the cashier in very broken Japanese. We parked ourselves and our snacks in front of the TV and watched some Japanese TV. It was some kind of competition show that involved pranks and really weird haircuts.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/21" %}
{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/21-part-2" %}

After "dinner", we each enjoyed a long, steamy soak in the big bathtub. It was just what our tired feet needed.

One of the big reasons we picked this place because we wanted to experience a good nights' sleep on a traditional futon. If you don't know, Japanese people traditionally sleep on a tatami mat floor with a thin mattress and a few sheets. Everything is easily foldable so you're able to pack it away and make more room in the home during the day.

The home also had a western style bed, which we were forced to use the first night because we didn't have the right sheets for the futon. 
We were keen to have the *Futon Experience* ™, so we messaged our host who promised to drop off the sheets the next day.

# Day 10: Exploring Philosopher's Walk on Two Wheels
The next morning, we decided to rent bikes and head to Philosopher's Walk (哲学の道). We used PiPPa, which is a bike rental app that has bikes all over the area that you can rent for a daily flat rate. The app was a bit tricky to use at first, but we got the hang of it eventually and were on our way. We thought they were e-bikes (good for hills and our lack of cardiovascular fitness), but they were actually just regular bikes (and heavy ones too!). If that doesn't bother you, we would recommend PiPPa!

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/22" caption="Squint if you love rainbow beanies!" %}

We noodled around for a bit and stopped at FamilyMart to grab some snacks for breakfast. Energy jellies were our favourite -- so easy to eat on the go and they gave us a decent energy boost.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/22.1" caption="A cream bun a day keeps the sadness away." %}

We rode around the streets of Kyōto for another 20 minutes or so until we finally made it to Philosopher's Walk. We had just ridden up a steep hill and planned to park our bikes there, but it wasn't clear whether we had to park the bikes at a PiPPa drop off zone or not. We decided to ride them back downhill to a drop off zone just to be safe and then walked back up the hill to explore the path on foot.

Philosopher's Walk gets its name from the famous Japanese philosophers, Nishida Kitaro (西田幾多郎) and Hajime Tanabe (田辺 元), who used to walk this path on their way to Kyoto University. The whole path takes about 30 minutes to walk in its entirety, but we walked about half of it before we got sidetracked by a cool uphill road with street vendors and a temple at the summit.

We decided to explore the temple first and then come back down to the street vendors afterwards. The temple itself was beautiful and the grounds surrounding it were immaculate. We were stoked to find out that there was a short trail to a lookout that had an incredible view of Kyōto. Temples are a great way to fill in the time if you don't have much planned for the day -- they are everywhere and always so serene.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/22.2" %}

We left the temple and made our way back down the road. We couldn't resist the allure of a potato tornado and candied strawberries from a street vendor - both were delicious and topped up our energy. We found an unexpected surprise when we returned to the walkway -- a restaurant that specialised in Philly Cheesesteaks. Despite being literally on the other side of the planet from Philadelphia, we couldn't resist and went in. Soph was hoping to try the macaroni and French fries sandwich, but it turned out the macaroni salad had tuna in it, so she settled for the hot chips on their own. Tristan, on the other hand, went for a Philly cheesesteak which was beyond delicious. Our waitress spoke excellent English, which is a rarity in Japan and a relief when you're trying to order vegetarian food.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/22.3" %}

As we left the restaurant, we spotted a man with two beautiful dogs -- they were some kind of cross between a Spaniel and a Golden Retriever. They were a deep mahogany color, and they were so striking that even Tristan commented on their beauty. We then hopped back on our bikes and decided to take a scenic route by the river. The ride was bumpy, but it was truly a once-in-a-lifetime experience. We coasted down the hills and soaked in the quieter streets of Kyōto.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/23" %}

We came across a canal that had stepping stones across it, so we decided to park our bikes and cross the canal for fun. It was a bit of a challenge for Soph, having to jump from one stone to another with her short woman legs, while Tristan with his long man legs only had to step normally to get across the gaps.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/24" %}

As we rode back to the parking place, we were perplexed by many groups of people all dressed in matching outfits which were unique to each group. We eventually figured that they might be auditioning for a J-pop idol dance troupe at a nearby theater. We liked that theory and decided to stick with it.

We then rode through a massive red Japanese traditional gate that towered over the road beneath. It was surreal riding through it and seeing its sheer scale up close. We finished up riding and dropped our bikes off at the nearby PiPPa drop off zone and headed back to our accommodation. It was such a nice way to get around the city -- we highly recommend renting bikes if you're heading to Kyōto.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/25" %}

We were keen to make a meal at home at least once on our trip, and this day was the perfect opportunity because it was the last day we would have access to a kitchen. We decided to make Japanese curry and tried to get the ingredients from Lawson, but it didn't have everything we needed so Tristan headed to Fresco, a Japanese grocery store, to get the rest of the ingredients. It was a challenge as there was no english signage, but he made it work.

We then cooked our curry, which turned out delicious (despite it being a little under-seasoned). It was really fun to use a Japanese rice cooker, even if the buttons were all in Japanese.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/26" %}

After dinner, we finally made up our futon. The sheets didn't quite fit the mattress, but we made do and we were glad we made the effort. It was really spacious and comfortable, and it felt like we were having a sleepover. It was a really comfortable sleep for both of us and we were glad we got to experience it.

{% include image-gallery.html folder="/assets/uploads/images/kyoto/27" %}

Onto Ōsaka tomorrow!